The next thing I want to talk about,
to kind of close out some of these code
along examples is the idea of
concurrency and multitasking in Go.
So Go has a tool called a Goroutine.
And a Goroutine is a super lightweight
thread managed by the Go runtime that
allows Go to asynchronously fire
off a lot of different tasks
at the same time in
a more streamlined way.
So to implement a Goroutine,
you simply put the keyword, go,
before the function you'd like to execute.
And go behind the scenes knows it's
going to spin up a separate thread
to make something happen.
So in the example on the screen here we
have a function that is apparently going
to do something incredibly slowly.
And then in our main function,
we're setting that to a Goroutine.
So go can continue execution with the rest
of the program while the slow thing
happens.
So we're gonna code along a real quick
example of what this looks like.
Concurrency in Go is
an incredibly powerful tool, and
I think there's a ton to it.
So the goal for this exercise is to
kind of just demonstrate how painless
it is to kind of start spinning up
some asynchronous functionality.
We won't go too far into what's
actually happening behind the scenes.
That would be a really great
next step to kind of talk about.
So let's hop over to Concurrency.Go
in our Chapter 13, and
then take a look at Goroutines.
So in the concurrency dot Go file,
I have some functionality
that already lives here.
In our main function we are calling
the save function twice.
The first time we're saying hello
the second time, we're saying there and
if you take a look at what's happening in
the save function it's expecting a string
and then for
an iteration of three iterations.
We're going to print that string and
then sleep for 300 milliseconds.
So if I fire this off right now
We are in chapter 13 and
go and concurrency.
You'll see that each of
those things prints but
it takes a minute before it happens.
So let's start with some Goroutines, and
look at what happens when we tell Go
to start handling this in
a more multi-threaded way.
So in our main function, the first thing
that's gonna happen, slowly, is this guy.
So we can throw the word go before say.
Let's fire it off again.
And notice that already we're seeing
some a little bit quicker where
as something's taken a minute it's
firing off the next iteration.
It's firing off that next
execution of line 17 of say there.
We can also put a thread before say there,
and watch it happen a little faster.
Or not at all.
So what's interesting about Goroutines is
they allow the code to be non-blocking.
If every single function
is set to a Goroutine,
nothing is going to execute before
the Goroutine has finished execution.
So right now we're saying like,
hey, spin up another thread,
let something else finish first.
But we are doing that twice.
So spin up another thread.
Let the next thing finish first.
The next thing is like cool,
spin up another thread.
Let whatever happens next finish first.
And because there's
nothing else happening,
nothing actually finishes
execution the way we expect it to.
So we'll remove that second go, and
we're back to seeing all of our execution.
So if we do wanna actually
manage this more specifically,
we can use a package that
exists called a sync.
And sync is gonna be a way that we
can kind of synchronize all of our
asynchronous functionality.
So the package is sync.
Up here at the top.
So what sync is gonna do
is it's going to ask for
what order do we wanna do things in?
And kinda it needs more instruction to
help us manage all the functionality,
what we wanna happen, when, and how.
So the first thing we need to do to
actually use the sync library is
establish something called a WaitGroup.
So I'm gonna set a variable
called w g to indicate WaitGroup.
And then use this thing package
to instantiate a WaitGroup,
which will be the type of this variable.
Cool.
We're gonna add some new functionality.
I'm gonna kill the Save function for
now we're gonna do something
a little bit more involved.
So within our main function here,
Let's say we
have a function called printStuff,
which means that above our main function,
I'm also going to create
a printStuff function.
Within printStuff, we're gonna have kind
of a similar four loop from our previous
example set the initial value to zero.
Increment up to about three and
then add one each time.
We're gonna go ahead and
put in just function.
Let's print out whatever index we're on.
And then let's add a sleep timer.
Time.Millisecond times however
long you'd like to wait.
If you haven't imported your time library,
my code editor is automatically adding
these for me, so
make sure you have both time, fmt, and
sync imported at the top
of your file here.
Cool.
And if I run my code now,
I just see 0, 1, 2 print real slow.
If we make this a Goroutine,
and we run it,
we get back to that situation where
we're not seeing anything print out.
Our Goroutines, spinning up a thread and
then it's cool, nothing's blocking and
Go kind of shuts down.
So what we can do here is we can use
our WaitGroup, And save waitgroup.add.
And so WaitGroup is gonna
take the add function, and
we're gonna hand it an integer.
It's gonna add it kind of behind
the scenes to a queue and be like, okay,
what are the things that
we want to accomplish?
And how do I know when these things are
done so I can actually execute the code?
So we can instantiate our WaitGroup.
And then after we're done running whatever
code we want and however many threads we
have, we can tell WaitGroup that
this is what we're waiting for.
We need to actually put a blocker so
that Go will continue execution.
And so if everything is good once all
of the counters have been released.
Our WaitGroup is complete.
And so besides just having our
counters being incremented,
behind the scenes in our WaitGroup,
and something saying like, hey,
wait until this is done, we need to add
an additional line within our printStuff
function that tells our WaitGroup,
okay, you're cool things are done.
Everything's good to go.
So we're gonna use defer our fancy method
defer here we're going to say, hey,
WaitGroup You can be done.
Okay, so we have defined our WaitGroup.
We've got some functionality to make sure
our asynchronous code is behaving the way
we want it to.
So our waitgroup.wait is
gonna wait until all of our
counters have been kind
of popped off the stack.
And so waitgroup that done here
is a way for us to be like okay,
pull one off the stack, but
if something goes wrong,
our waitgroup.wait is going to kind
of hang out here for quite a while.
So let's add one last kind
of error handling check.
We're gonna use defer again and
we're gonna create a function
called handle panic.
Similar to when we were talking about
r defer and recover functionality.
And so up here let's create
a func called handle panic.
And so we will use our recover function.
Cool.
And so we're saying that, okay, if recover
has been called because there's been
a panic and defer helped us get here,
we need to do something about it.
We're just gonna let the user know,
That there's panic.
This won't modify any of the actual
functionality because everything's
working great.
But the important part to note is that
because our WaitGroup is waiting for
all of those counters to be popped off
the stack here if something goes wrong and
we don't handle it the asynchronous
will just like kinda keep hang out and
we won't see the execution we expect.
So next steps if we were
to keep building this,
we would start talking about
the concept of a channel.
So right now our
functionality in printStuff,
all we're doing is printing to the screen.
We're not returning anything and
we're not trying to do anything
with that information.
But in the event we actually wanted our
Goroutines to be able to communicate to
each other we would do something kind of
channel and channel allows you to open up
a channel of communication
between two different Goroutines,
pass information back and forth and
do a little bit more complex logic.